English (AU) (Spoken) [Manually Transcribed Captions]
github.com/WizardTim/WizardTim-captions
Today we're going to be attempting a
repair on this here washing machine.
This is a Simpson brand washing machine from
about 2010, this is part of their easy set range
and this particular unit has a bit of a problem.
The fault condition this thing goes into is when
you turn it on it appears to work perfectly fine
but after a few minutes it will just turn off
but when you turn it off at the power outlet
after a couple seconds it will turn back on,
and then immediately back off, so I'm thinking it
might have something to do with a power supply
problem so this might be salvageable. So getting
into this there's just four screws at the back and
we can take off this top plastic cover and we can
see here the line cable comes in it goes to a line
filter a power switch and then that goes to this
here controller board which looks like it has the
power supply on it along with some other things
possibly a VFD for the main motor there's two
solenoids here for the hot and cold water and
then there's these two circuit boards here one for
all of the buttons LEDs and the seven segment
display and we can see there's a buzzer on there
as well and then the other one is just a rotary
encoder for the current mode so I'm suspecting
our problem is going to be on this power supply
looking board so taking a closer look at that.
We can see here it's starting to look very
power supply like, we have the mains input
here with all of the filtering a bridge
rectifier a main bulk capacitor which is
quite large actually although this chip here quite
large looks to be some sort of fully integrated
H-bridge or motor driver and that's probably
what this connector here is going to that main
motor at the bottom of the washing machine.
However we can see that there's a transformer
here, a lot of capacitors and some sort of probably
switching transistor, so I suspect this here is our
power supply and we also can see that there's a
controller here from International Rectifier
which is probably the main system controller for
the entire washing machine or it might just be for
the motor because there is that other board but we
might not even have to deal with any of that stuff.
Also of note is all of these opto-isolators
and the fact that this has a transformer
so we can be pretty safe to assume that
this is an isolated power supply and I
can just probe around in this low voltage
stuff perfectly fine... or is it actually?
So maybe, maybe I should take a closer look at
this before I start shoving my finger on that.
So with the board out I'm really not seeing
where that isolation gap is I mean there's sort
of something here but what's all these things
here going to the probably motor controller...
yeah... and the other side is a complete mess like
where, where is this isolation? For reference here's
an ATX computer power supply and you can see
that isolation gap is really obvious. So I
think maybe testing continuity and testing this
bridge rectifier, yep the input is connected to
this bridge rectifier directly and how about
the ground of this here crystal oscillator?
Yep it's connected directly to neutral or at least
one diode drop through the bridge rectifier.
So um yeah that, that could have been a bit of a
tingle I mean it is neutral but there's plenty of
countries that have non-polarized plugs
and there's plenty of houses that have
live and neutral reversed and I'm also not
quite sure what other high voltage stuff is
on the supposedly "secondary"
side of this power supply,
so yeah that's something to watch out for
in these sorts of consumer appliances where
it's unreasonable to expect the end consumer is
going to touch any of the electronic circuits.
And when you're working on stuff like this don't
forget to discharge the main bulk capacitor onit,
this one's quite large i think it probably
stores around 30 to 40 joules of energy so thatcould,
that could hurt quite a bit so now we can
safely take a look at all of these soldered joints...
I'm not seeing anything here it looks all
good we can of course see that this board is
nicely conformally coated so we can rule out any
sort of contaminants affecting the performance
but the soldering quality on this looks quite
good and I'm not seeing any broken solder joints
all of these surface mount devices also look
quite good none of them are tombstone none of
them have cold joints. And on the other
side taking a look at these capacitors
none of them are bulging, none of them
are leaking, they all look perfectly fine
normally it's the capacitors because they are
electrolytics, even this one here right next to
this transistor heatsink is perfectly fine so yeah
it might not be an easy fix like a capacitor so...
So I guess it's time to whip out my secret
weapon, my thermal camera and looking at the PCB
now installed into the device after about
five minutes it decides to turn itself off
and going to the thermal view we can see that that
transistor is getting quite hot by the looks of it
and coming in closer now I can see it's
not actually that transistor but this here
DIP package device this thing
here seems to be the problem
and getting the macro lens on it now we can
see this is definitely the problem it's got a
massive hotspot on it and it is 128 degrees,
yeah this thing is not having a good day
this is definitely not meant to operate this hot
because i'd expect at this temperature this FR-4
PCB would be heavily discolored but, this, this
problem's only been happening for about a week
so it's been caught early on so it's not had time
to damage the PCB. So yeah I'm suspecting this chip.
Although it could be something like a fault on
the output is bringing this chip's output into
some sort of short circuit protection but I'd
imagine there should be other hot spots and
a very hot PCB trace so I'm suspecting there's
something maybe internally wrong with this chip
taking a closer look at that chip it is this
one here and we can see the soldering on the
opposite side is perfectly acceptable so
it's not that it's got a loose connection
so taking a closer look at the chip itself
we can see it's one of these eight pin high-voltage
DIP packages because it has this missing
pin here to get higher high voltage separation
so I'm suspecting this might be some sort of
fully integrated off-line voltage switcher and
looking at the marking I'm not familiar with
this logo by hand however the marking is "TNY278PN"
and it appears to have been manufactured the
32nd week 2010 which makes sense for this device
so I had a bit of a search round
and I found this here datasheet
as it turns out this chip is from Power
Integrations this is part of the TinySwitch-III
family which says it's an "energy efficient offline
switcher with enhanced flexibility and extended
power range" and we can see here we have the "TNY278P"
which is either 16 or 28 watts depending on
presumably the cooling capabilities of the
enclosure and taking a closer look into
this datasheet we can see a recommended circuit
board layout which also includes a thermal check
note which says that the maximum operating
temperature should not exceed 110 and further
in the data sheet we can see there is a thermal
shutdown temperature of a 142 degrees which
I imagine in that thermal picture of it being 128
degrees on the outside the die temperature was
probably certainly over that and that would also
explain why this thing randomly turns on after
you unplug it from the wall probably some sort
of die cooldown thing re-enabling the chip for
a second so I'm starting to get rather suspicious
of this chip although I've just remembered I had a
ATX computer power supply from my old computer
from 2011 that had a strange problem with what
I suspect was the standby power supply deciding
not to work one day and if we take it apart we
can see it has exactly the same chip it is a "TNY278PN"
however this one's from the 18th week 2011.
now I never actually fixed this power supply
because I just bought a new one however at the
time I was a little suspicious that this chip
might be a problem and with this new washing
machine PCB I'm now extremely suspicious of this
chip so I think the next best step is to just
buy a new chip and whack it in that's probably the
easiest thing to do to check if that's the problem
and so I want this chip next day so taking a look
on element14 we can see the "TNY278PN" is available
and it's only AU$2.64 so I shall buy some of them and
we'll see if we can repair it tomorrow although it
will be the next second for you. So here's that new
chip it's the same package although the engraving
is different we can see Power Integrations has
changed their logo since this one is manufactured
the 42nd week 2021 so this should be quite simple
to just get the desoldering gun out... uh oh okay...
So I guess the the desoldering gun has decided
to have a shorted heating element today
of all days I want to fix this today though
so I guess we're going to be doing it manually
and I can't find my solder sucker either so I
guess we're going to be demoing how to remove
a DIP package and put a new one in with a
soldering iron and basic hand tools... oh goodie...[sounds of despair]
Okay so firstly we're going to be scraping
off the conformal coating and adding
some leaded solder to make my life easier, also
going to be very generous with the flux pen
and I might as well give this solder braid a
go although I've never have any success with it
and uh yeah no success with that so I guess it's
just going to be cutting the chip out just with
a set of side cutters pulling it out and then
we can clean up the rest of the conformal coating
and then it's just as easy as heating up the pad
on the other side and pulling out the legs.
And now with that chip out we have to make sure that
we can put the new ones in through the holes but
there currently aren't holes so this is a trick
for you if you're in a very desperate situation
you can get the leg of a resistor and coat it
in a generous amount of flux as well as the PCB
you can then heat up the pad you want to make
it sure it's very hot all the way through the
view and to the other side and then while
still heating it put the resistor leg
in, you want to make sure to get it in all the way
and then once you've got it in make sure to keep
moving it and keep adding heat moving it up
and down until you get the entire leg coated in
the solder to pick up as much solder as possible
and then inevitably when it cools down just keep
moving it especially in a circular motion and
that will make sure that the solder does not
bond with the resistor leg so now
you have a resistor stuck in the PCB
but now the PCB has a hole in it so just move it
up and down like a file and eventually it will
come loose although you do have to be very careful
not to damage the inner coating of the via that
can be quite fragile and if you damage it then
that will be a very difficult repair however if
you're in a bind that can be quite a good way to
get a through hole hole back to uh being able to
put a DIP package in and it looks like this
has turned out reasonably well certainly not my
finest work but for today in a washing machine
that's already 10 years old it should be fine
so putting that package in now and
just soldering it on the other side
uh yeah turned out well enough. And so I remember
that I've repaired this in the future I'm going to
also put a nice purple dot on it and then I think
we can plug it in and test whether or not it works
and so if it plugged back in it's now consuming
significantly less power down from 18.8 to 14.2
and that hot spot is now completely gone and
we can see that that chip is no longer at
the scorching 128 degrees it's now a much more
tame at 51.8 and this is after 20 minutes normally
it would turn itself off due to overheating after
about five minutes and putting it on for a cycle
we can see it works perfectly fine now so I think
we fixed it however you should know by now that
me on this channel is not quite happy with just
fixing something i want to know exactly why it has
failed so we're going to be doing some destructive
analysis on this chip to see if we can figure out
why it's stopped working so with these sorts
of plastic dip packages you can heat them up
in this case to 400 degrees Celsius and chip
away the plastic and expose the metal lead frame
which you can peel back and you can then
remove the silicon die however in this case
400 degrees was not hot enough or I didn't let
it dwell for long enough so I managed to crack the
die so we're also going to be doing it to one of
the newer chips from 2021 and I'm going to bump
it up to 450 degrees and uh make sure it's nice
and hot and uh that one yeah I managed to extract
the die intact for that one so here we have the
two dies I extracted from the two separate chips
I was expecting there to actually be two separate
dies in this chip for high voltage separation,
one for the control and one for the actual MOSFET but
as it turns out it's just one big chip presumably
that helps keep the cots down quite a lot
unfortunately the chip that failed I didn't heat
up enough and it has exploded everywhere although
I managed to pick up some of the pieces I was
hoping though that I would be able to get it out
in one piece and we could have a nice smoking gun
skid mark on the chip where the mosfet exploded
or something really cool but unfortunately that's
not going to happen today and the other chip I
managed to extract intact however I don't know
what happened I didn't get it hot enough but some
of the plastic stuck to it so I have to chip that
off and then sand it down although unfortunately
I wasn't able to consistently sand it very well so
part of the side has come off. Also here's the
chip and the die appears to have been placed in
this area here and in this orientation and that
correlates to the solder marks on the lead
frame as well as the thermal image and the wire
bonding placement also makes sense for the pins
so here are the two dies or at least what's left
of one of them and the other one and we can see
that there's two very obvious regions on the die
one at the bottom for the quite large transistor
and the area on the top presumably has all of the
control electronics for that, there's quite a lot
of it as well so let's have a closer look at these
chips and see if we can find anything that might
be wrong with them or sort of uh speculate as
to what the failure mode could have been seeing
as I lost half the other one so taking a look at
the new chip we can see uh has a die marking here
it appears to have the old Power Integrations
logo as well as the copyright mask copyright
of 2007 so this design definitely
dates back to 2007 even in this newer chip
and it appears to have been marking a "DS58F4"
and that matches with the older chip as well that
has failed so presumably the die has not changed
between revisions there was also this other number
on the top right of the new chip this is "DS58F"
although the "4" is missing although I might
have sanded that off but I don't think so
but unfortunately on the chip that
failed a nice little crack developed
exactly where that number was so I guess
we'll never know i couldn't find that
shard in the pile of shards left over
but I suspect it's probably the same
and this here is one of the wire bonds for the
transistor this is either the source or the drain
however you'll note that the large transistor is
actually separated into three separate transistors
now this is important because I suspect this
may actually be a failure mode that could happen
looking at the wire bonds we can see that they're
actually different between the two devices on the
older device this is what the wire bonds look
like there are directly bonded onto the main
area of the lead frame whereas the newer device
has a different style of wire bonding which is
on one side of the lead frame so I'm
wondering if maybe they had an issue with the
wire bonds failing and maybe uh one of
these transistor areas became unavailable
which resulted in a high RDS(on) which caused the
device to overheat and that's why they changed it
maybe? But that really is just baseless
speculation it could be as simple as
they started manufacturing their chip at
a different semiconductor fab house and
they just had a different wirebond machine the
lead frame is completely different unfortunately
I've destroyed the lead frame in doing this and
didn't take a picture of it but unfortunately
seeing as I managed to destroy the die of
the faulty device I guess we'll never know
but I think that's a reasonable explanation
so uh I guess thanks for watching and I'll
leave you with some video of the die of the
broken one it's pretty cool features in here.